To improve versatility, I have implemented a “Developer Mode” in some of the Macro Enabled Excel documents, such as the Able Body Report Roster.xlsm, Duty Roster.xlsm, Digital HARP.xlsm, etc. Not all files will have Developer Mode as it may not be necessary for them all.

Developer Mode allows a user to safely make certain edits to the document such as changing the options in a dropdown list, the picture associated with a worksheet, the password used to lock and protect the document, and more. In the files that support Developer Mode, you can access it by opening the document, enabling Macros, and clicking on any unlocked/editable cell. Once you have done that simply press (Ctrl+Shift+Alt+D).

If done correctly, a window will appear informing you that you are about to enter Developer Mode. While in this mode, you will be able to safely make changed to certain aspects of the document. If further or more in-depth changes need to be made, please contact me at jeffreyda@gmail.com.



TO MAKE EDITS BEYOND WHAT CAN BE MADE IN DEVELOPER MODE READ BELOW

Edits beyond what is possible while in Developer Mode can be made by unlocking the document entirely with the password given in the files Developer Mode sheet, or by entering Developer Mode, and while on the DevMode sheet pressing (Ctrl+Shift+~). I STRONGLY URGE YOU TO USE CAUTION IF YOU MAKE THESE KINDS OF CHANGES. ONLY DO SO IF YOU KNOW EXACTLY WHAT YOU ARE DOING.

It is important to note that changes beyond what can be made while in Developer Mode are very likely to render the file broken as there are hard coded references to cells, sheets, and other aspects of the document that can be broken if changes are made and the VBA code is not updated to reflect those changes. That being said, if you understand how to read and write VBA macros, and you are proficient in doing so, then you are more than welcome to attempt to do this on your own, but at your own risk of breaking the file (and possibly other associated files) by doing so.
